Describe Data Studios template image versioning (#309)
seqeralabs/docs: platform_versioned_docs/version-24.2/data_studios/index.mdx

Data Studios provides four container image templates: JupyterLab, RStudio Server, Visual Studio Code, and Xpra. The image templates install a very limited number of packages when the session container is built. You can install additional packages as needed during a session.

> The image template names include the version of the included analysis application and the Seqera image template version itself. The Seqera version string is of the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image template names include the version of the analysis application and the Seqera image template version itself. The Seqera version string looks like this:
```

```ignore title="Image template version"
<tool_version>-<seqera_version>-[u-<update_version>]
```

> The following version strings apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I don't know if this suggestion comes through but I would leave out the introductory sentence.

Author: @justinegeffen, just a hanging list under the example?

Data Studios provides four container image templates: JupyterLab, RStudio Server, Visual Studio Code, and Xpra. The image templates install a very limited number of packages when the session container is built. You can install additional packages as needed during a session.

> The image template tag includes the version of the analysis application and the Seqera image template version itself. The tag string looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image template tag includes the version of the analysis application, an optional incompatibility flag, and the Seqera Connect version. Connect is the proprietary Seqera webserver client that manages communication with the container. The tag string looks like this:
```

```ignore title="Image template tag"
<tool_version>-[u<update_version>]-<seqera_version>
```

> - `<tool_version>`: Analysis application version, such as `4.2.5` for JupyterLab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<tool_version>`: Third party analysis application that follows it's own semantic versioning `<major>.<minor>.<patch>`, such as `4.2.5` for JupyterLab.
```

> <tool_version>-[u<update_version>]-<seqera_version>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<tool_version>-[u<update_version>]-<connect_version>
```

> - `<update_version>`: Seqera image template update integer version, such as `u1`, for instances where a breaking change is introduced

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<update_version>`: Optional analysis application update version, such as `u1`, for instances where a backwards incompatible change is introduced.
```

> - `<tool_version>`: Third party analysis application that follows it's own semantic versioning `<major>.<minor>.<patch>`, such as `4.2.5` for JupyterLab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<tool_version>`: Third-party analysis application that follows its own semantic versioning `<major>.<minor>.<patch>`, such as `4.2.5` for JupyterLab.
```

> - `<seqera_version>`: Seqera template image version, such as `0.7.0`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<connect_version>`: Seqera Connect client version, such as `0.7` or `0.7.0`.
```

> Additionally, the Seqera version string looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the Seqera Connect client version string has the format:
```

```ignore title="Seqera version tag subset"
<major>.<minor>.<patch>
```

> - `<major>`: Signifies breaking changes in the underlying Seqera container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<major>`: Signifies major version changes in the underlying Seqera Connect client.
```

> - `<minor>`: Signifies non-breaking changes in the underlying Seqera container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<minor>`: Signifies breaking changes in the underlying Seqera Connect client.
```

> - `<patch>`: Signifies minor non-breaking changes in the underlying Seqera container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<patch>`: Signifies patch (non-breaking) changes in the underlying Seqera Connect client.
```

Reviewer 2: It's a little confusing to call the `<minor>` version "non-breaking" and `<patch>` version "minor". Also, the minor version is actually a breaking change.

When pushed to the container registry, an image template is tagged with the following tags:

> - `<major>.<minor>`, such as `4.2.3-0.7`. When adding a new data studio this tag is the tag displayed in Seqera Platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<tool_version>-<major>.<minor>`, such as `4.2.3-0.7`. When adding a new data studio container template image this is the tag displayed in Seqera Platform.
```

> - `<major>.<minor>.<patch>`, such as `4.2.3-0.7.1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<tool_version>-<major>.<minor>.<patch>`, such as `4.2.3-0.7.1`.
```

> To see the latest versions of the images, see [public.cr.seqera.io](https://public.cr.seqera.io/). You can also create your own container image templates. For more information, see [Custom environments][custom-envs].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the latest versions of the images, see [public.cr.seqera.io](https://public.cr.seqera.io/). You can also augment the Seqera-provided image templates or use your own custom container image templates. This approach is recommended for managing reproducible analysis environments. For more information, see [Custom environments][custom-envs].
```

> To install additional Python packages, execute `!pip install <packagename>` commands in your notebook environment. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install additional Python packages during a running session, execute `!pip install <packagename>` commands in your notebook environment. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.
```

To see the list of all JupyterLab image templates available, see [public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-jupyter](https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-jupyter).

**RStudio Server 4.4.1**

> The default user is the `root` account. To install R packages, execute `install.packages("<packagename>")` commands in your notebook environment. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default user is the `root` account. To install R packages during a running session, execute `install.packages("<packagename>")` commands in your notebook environment. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.
```

To see the list of all RStudio Server image templates available, see [public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-rstudio](https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-rstudio).

**Visual Studio Code 1.93.1**

> [Visual Studio Code][vsc] is an integrated development environment (IDE) that supports many programming languages. The default user is the `root` account. To install extensions, select **Extensions**. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Visual Studio Code][vsc] is an integrated development environment (IDE) that supports many programming languages. The default user is the `root` account. To install extensions during a running session, select **Extensions**. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <packagename>`.
```

To see the list of all Visual Studio Code image templates available, see [public.cr.seqera.io/platform/data-studio-vscode](https://public.cr.seqera.io/repo/platform/data-studio-vscode).

**Xpra 6.2.0**

[Xpra](https://github.com/Xpra-org/xpra), known as _screen for X_, allows you to run X11 programs by giving you remote access to individual graphical applications. The container template image also installs NVIDIA Linux x64 (AMD64/EM64T) drivers for Ubuntu 22.04 for running GPU-enabled applications. To use these GPU drivers, your compute environment must specify GPU instance families.

> The default user is the `root` account. The image is based on `ubuntu:jammy`. Additional system-level packages can be installed in a terminal window using `apt install <package_name>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default user is the `root` account. The image is based on `ubuntu:jammy`. Additional system-level packages can be installed during a running session in a terminal window using `apt install <package_name>`.
```
